// Mechanics //
You commit the crime then play as the detective investigating the clues.
Evidence Physics
Every character has a blood type, unique fingerprint, eye color, hair color, age, height, weight, sex, race, build (e.g., muscular, slim), dental records, complexion (e.g., clear skin, scars), speech pattern (e.g., pitch, slang, lisp), walking gait, clothing, and personality.

Statements
You can press on statements, the witness/suspect will reveal information if they were withholding any from you. Pressing will give them +1 agitation. Each witness/suspect has a patience limit (2-10), if you press them past that point they will no longer take questions.
If a suspect cracks on multiple questions, they are a top suspect. If someone cracks on only one or two statements they are probably nervous but innocent.
Psychopaths will never crack. Look for them to show no emotion or no change in emotion for the entire interrogation.


Criminal Gameplay
You can choose to leave a calling card, which will make it easier for the detective to identify you but will be worth less experience.
The best way to find which statements to press is to look for contradictions. Interview suspects in order of least important to most important, that way you have the most evidence possible to cross-reference for contradictions.
You can choose what the motive was. Options will be included to have no motive and to have the motive be a mystery for you to figure out.


// Writing //
Example 1
The victim is found dead in their movie seat. Everyone thought they were sleeping until the janitor took a closer look.
The theater attendant says the victim arrived alone and bought a single ticket. (Did a random stranger murder her? Or did she meet a date there?)
The victim's friend says she was actually meeting her date there.
A blade with the victim's blood was found in an alley 3 blocks from the theater.
The killer confessed when confronted with the murder weapon.

Example 2
Man hit in back of head with blunt object. Passed away shortly after.
Facility next to crime scene makes acid.
Blood from the victim was found on the floor inside the facility. The detective thinks an employee committed the murder and dissolved the evidence.



// Game Design Research //
Play Return of the Obra Dinn


